Topics: Confidence Intervals

1.	For each of the following statements, indicate whether it is True/False. If false, explain why.

I.	The sample size of the survey should at least be a fixed percentage of the population size in order to produce representative results.

II.	The sampling frame is a list of every item that appears in a survey sample, including those that did not respond to questions.

III.	Larger surveys convey a more accurate impression of the population than smaller surveys.


Ans:

I.	False.
The produce representative results is only depends on the size of the sample not on the percentage of the population size. Because we are working the sample data not on population data then percentage of the population size is not matter when we want to produce representative results.

II.	False.
The sampling frame is a list of all the items you want to include in your survey. It should include everything you intend to study. Items that don't respond are not part of this list. Non-response is about those who were on the list but didn't answer the survey.

III.	True

 


2.	PC Magazine asked all of its readers to participate in a survey of their satisfaction with different brands of electronics. In the 2004 survey, which was included in an issue of the magazine that year, more than 9000 readers rated the products on a scale from 1 to 10. The magazine reported that the average rating assigned by 225 readers to a Kodak compact digital camera was 7.5. For this product, identify the following:

A.	The population
B.	The parameter of interest
C.	The sampling frame
D.	The sample size
E.	The sampling design
F.	Any potential sources of bias or other problems with the survey or sample

Ans:
A.	The population in this scenario would be all readers of PC Magazine who have an opinion or experience with Kodak compact digital cameras. In other words, it's the group of people who could potentially rate the product.

B.	The parameter of interest is the population mean (average) rating given by all readers of PC Magazine to the Kodak compact digital camera. In this case, it's the average rating assigned by all readers who have an opinion on the product.

C.	Each and everyone who rated the product (9000).

D.	The sample size mentioned in the scenario is 225 readers.

E.	The sampling design is relies on those who choose to respond voluntarily.

F.	Self-Selection Bias: Since the survey relied on readers who chose to participate voluntarily, there may be self-selection bias. Readers who have strong opinions (positive or negative) about the product may be more motivated to respond, potentially leading to biased results.



3.	For each of the following statements, indicate whether it is True/False. If false, explain why.

I.	If the 95% confidence interval for the average purchase of customers at a department store is $50 to $110, then $100 is a plausible value for the population mean at this level of confidence.

II.	If the 95% confidence interval for the number of moviegoers who purchase concessions is 30% to 45%, this means that fewer than half of all moviegoers purchase concessions.

III.	The 95% Confidence-Interval for μ only applies if the sample data are nearly normally distributed.

Ans: 

I.	True.

II.	False.  The 95% confidence interval for the number of moviegoers who purchase concessions ranging from 30% to 45% does not necessarily mean that fewer than half of all moviegoers purchase concessions.



III.	False. The 95% confidence interval for the population mean (μ) does not require that the sample data be "nearly normally distributed." the central limit theorem helps justify the use of confidence intervals for the population mean in many situations, even when the underlying population is not normally distributed.

4.	What are the chances that  ?

A.	¼ 
B.	½ 
C.	¾ 
D.	1
  
Ans:
          
            B. if we consider more than 50% for sample mean then the probability of getting lower values is large. Which is sample mean is always lower than half of the population mean.
   

5.	In January 2005, a company that monitors Internet traffic (WebSideStory) reported that its sampling revealed that the Mozilla Firefox browser launched in 2004 had grabbed a 4.6% share of the market.

I.	If the sample were based on 2,000 users, could Microsoft conclude that Mozilla has a less than 5% share of the market?

II.	WebSideStory claims that its sample includes all the daily Internet users. If that’s the case, then can Microsoft conclude that Mozilla has a less than 5% share of the market?

Ans:

I.	No.  [Refer IPYNB]

II.	Yes. There's no hypothesis testing needed in this scenario because you have information for the entire population, assuming the claim of including all daily Internet users is accurate.



6.	A book publisher monitors the size of shipments of its textbooks to university bookstores. For a sample of texts used at various schools, the 95% confidence interval for the size of the shipment was 250 ± 45 books. Which, if any, of the following interpretations of this interval are correct?

A.	All shipments are between 205 and 295 books.

B.	95% of shipments are between 205 and 295 books.

C.	The procedure that produced this interval generates ranges that hold the population mean for 95% of samples.

D.	If we get another sample, then we can be 95% sure that the mean of this second sample is between 205 and 295.

E.	We can be 95% confident that the range 160 to 340 holds the population mean.

Ans: 
           
A.	Incorrect.   The confidence interval does not make a statement about all shipments. It only provides an interval estimate for the population parameter

B.	Incorrect.  This interpretation implies that 95% of shipments fall between 205 and 295 books. However, the confidence interval actually provides a range within which we are 95% confident the population mean (average) falls, not a range for individual shipments.

C.	Correct.

D.	Incorrect. We cannot sure that one sample is 95% confident, that does not mean other sample also lie on the same range. 

E.	Incorrect.   This statement is not correct because the confidence interval that we calculated is 250 ± 45, not 160 to 340. The range provided in the confidence interval is where you can be 95% confident that the population mean falls.


7.	Which is shorter: a 95% z-interval or a 95% t-interval for μ if we know that σ =s?

A.	The z-interval is shorter
B.	The t-interval is shorter
C.	Both are equal
D.	We cannot say

Ans:
A.	 95% confident Z-interval is shorter (1.960), as for t-interval (1.962) it increases as the degree of freedom decreases.


Questions 8 and 9 are based on the following: To prepare a report on the economy, analysts need to estimate the percentage of businesses that plan to hire additional employees in the next 60 days.

8.	How many randomly selected employers (minimum number) must we contact in order to guarantee a margin of error of no more than 4% (at 95% confidence)?

A.	600
B.	400
C.	550
D.	1000

Ans:   
A.	

 For a 95% confidence level (Z = 1.65) and a margin of error of 4% (E = 0.04), we want to solve for n:

        Margin of Error = Z * sqrt( p * (q)/n)
n = sample size
z = Confidence level
p = predicted value
q = unpredicted value

when we simplify the formula we get

n = Z2 * p * q / Margin of Error2
    = (1.65)2 * (0.5) * (1 – 0.5) / (0.04)2
    = 680 (approx..)
                           
             Which is option A. 600(approx.) 

9.	Suppose we want the above margin of error to be based on a 98% confidence level. What sample size (minimum) must we now use?

A.	1000
B.	757
C.	848
D.	543

Ans:
B.	848

For a 98% confidence level (Z = 2.33) and the same margin of error of 4% (E = 0.04), we have:

           n = Z2 * 0.5 * (1-0.5)/0.042  
            
               =  848.13(approx..)
